doc: Drafted Schema Driven DT (#5533)
devtron-labs/devtron: docs/user-guide/creating-application/deployment-template/deployment.md

Every chart version has its own YAML file. Helm charts are used to provide specifications for your application. To make it easy to use, we have created templates for the YAML file and have added some variables inside the YAML. You can provide or change the values of these variables as per your requirement.

If you want to see [Application Metrics](#4.-show-application-metrics) (as an example, Status codes 2xx, 3xx, 5xx; throughput, and latency etc.) for your application, then you need to select the latest chart version.

**Note**: Application Metrics are not supported for the Chart version older than 3.7 version.

---

## 2. Basic Configuration

Some of the use-cases which are defined on the Deployment Template (YAML file) may not be applicable to configure for your application. In such cases, you can do a basic deployment configuration for your application in the **Basic (GUI)** section instead of configuring the YAML file.

![](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/creating-application/deployment-template/basic-config-deployment-template-v2.jpg)

> The following fields are available for you to edit in the **Basic (GUI)** section:

Reviewer: By default the following fields... can be modified by user

| Fields | Description |
| :---    |     :---       |

> | **Arguments**  | Enable the `Arguments` to pass one or more argument values. By default, it is in the `disabled` state. |

Reviewer: Stuff below this is common for all devtron charts except cron job (It may have some fields lesser), why mentioning this in deployment and not in common? Same is true for API def to modify the schema, defined below

Author: Correct. Fixed. Now I have put all those in common (Base Deployment Template doc).
Originally, things were stuffed only in Rollout Deployment doc (because that used to be the default type long ago, I guess).

| **ServiceAccount** | Specify the service account for the deployment to use, allowing it to access Kubernetes API resources.<ul><li>**Create**: Toggle to create a new service account.</li><li>**Name**: The name of the service account to use.</li></ul>|

Click **Save Changes**. If you want to do additional configurations, then click the **Switch to Advanced** button or **Advanced (YAML)** button for modifications.

{% hint style="warning" %}
### Note
* If you change any values in the 'Basic (GUI)', then the corresponding values will change in 'Advanced (YAML)' too.
* Users who are not super-admins will land on 'Basic (GUI)' section when they visit **Base Deployment Template** page; whereas super-admins will land on 'Advanced (YAML)' section. This is just a default behavior; therefore, they can still navigate to the other section if needed.

> * 'Basic (GUI)' will not be locked while editing the 'Advanced (YAML)' section.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention this line?

Author: Hmm...you are right. Only the old users might notice that it no longer gets locked. But they will be happy anyway, so I will remove this line from the doc.

{% endhint %}

### Customize Basic GUI [![](https://devtron-public-asset.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/images/elements/EnterpriseTag.svg)](https://devtron.ai/pricing)

{% hint style="warning" %}
### Who Can Perform This Action?
Superadmin can define and apply custom deployment schema using API
{% endhint %}

By default, the `Basic (GUI)` section comes with multiple predefined fields as seen earlier [in the table](#2-basic-configuration). However, if you wish to display a different set of fields to your team, you can modify the whole section as per your requirement.

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09VP1I-WvUs" caption="JSON-driven Deployment Schema" %}

This is useful in scenarios where:
* Your team members find it difficult to understand and edit the [Advanced (YAML)](#3-advanced-yaml) section.
* You frequently edit certain fields in Advanced (YAML), which you expect to remain easily accessible in Basic (GUI) section.
* You don't require some fields in Basic (GUI) section.
* You need the autonomy to keep the Basic (GUI) unique for applications/clusters/environments/charts, or display the same Basic (GUI) everywhere.

> This is possible by passing a custom JSON (deployment schema) of your choice through the following API. You may need to run the API with the `POST` method if you are doing it for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is possible by passing a custom JSON (deployment schema) of your choice through the following API. 

Note: To define the schema for the first time use the `POST` method. Afterwards one can use PUT to replace the defined schema
```
